# Minesweeper

A classic, and the first computer game I can remember playing. I wanted to test my JavaScript skills and implement my first game. I could think of no better choice than the first one I ever played.

## The Game

Minesweeper dates back to the 1960's. The goal of the game is to clear a grid containing hidden mines, using the numbers in neighboring cells as clues. If you hit a mine, game over. You can check out the history of the game [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minesweeper_(video_game)).

#### Gameplay
1. Choose your level
   - Beginner: 10x10 grid, 10 mines
   - Intermediate: 16x16 grid, 40 mines
   - Expert: 16x30 grid, 99 mines
   
2. Click any where on the board and the timer will start. The numbers represents how many mines are touching the revealed cell (the count includes diagonals).

3. Right click to place a flag on a suspected mine. Right click again to remove the flag.

4. Keep clicking until only the mines are left. Hit a mine, and you lose. But it's ok, just click the little face at the top and try again.

## Technologies Used
The triumvirate:
- HTML
- CSS
- JavaScript

#### HTML
The HTML is rather concise. The gameboard itself is a simple table, and the contents are generated by the JavaScript.

#### CSS
Style wise, I took a lot of inspiration from the old Windows version. My biggest challenge on the CSS end was styling the table itself. The borders in particular were a bit tricky, especially for the cleared cells.

#### JavaScript
I was about a month in to learning JavaScript when I built this web app and I learned a lot along the way. Here's a rundown of the highlights:
- Writing a recursive function to clear surrounding cells when and empty one is clicked
- Creating a functional timer to display time elapsed
- Dynamically creating a table based off of the level selected
- Assinging event listeners to handle clicking a cell, placing a mine and updating the smiley display
- Working out the control flow and gameplay logic
